Src: https://www.sanjeevkapoor.com/recipe/Paneer-Tikka-Masala-Paneer-Book.html

Chunks of marinated grilled paneer and capsicum in a creamy onion tomato masala a paneer tikka masala is one of the vegetarian Indian recipes that have found favour abroad. Soft grilled paneer and the flavours of the masala, blend together beautifully to give you a final dish which is a treat to all your senses. The process of making it from scratch can be lengthy but worth the effort.

Prep Time : 51-60 minutes

Cook time : 26-30 minutes

Serve : 4

Level Of Cooking : Easy

Taste : Spicy

Ingredients for Paneer Tikka Masala Recipe
Paneer cut into cubes 500 grams
Green capsicum 2 medium
Oil 4 medium
Butter 1 tablespoon
Marinade
Yogurt, drained	1 cup
Ginger paste	1 tablespoon
Garlic paste	1 tablespoon
Kashmiri red chilli powder	2 teaspoons
Garam masala powder	1 teaspoon
Lemon juice	2 tablespoons
Salt to taste
Mustard oil	2 tablespoons
Onion tomato masala
Oil	2-3 tablespoons
Cumin seeds	1 teaspoon
Onions	4 medium
Garlic, chopped	7-8 cloves
Ginger paste	1 teaspoon
Garlic paste	1 teaspoon
Tomatoes, chopped	3 large
Salt	to taste
Tomato puree	1/4 cup
Red chilli powder	1 1/2 tablespoons
Turmeric powder	1/4 teaspoon
Coriander powder	1 teaspoon
Cumin powder	1 teaspoon
Fresh coriander leaves, chopped	1 tablespoon
Kasoori methi , crushed
Garam masala powder	1 teaspoon
Cream 1/4 cup

Method
Step 1
To make the tikkas combine all the ingredients for the marinade and whisk well.
Step 2
Dip paneer cubes in the marinade and set aside to marinate for half an hour, preferably in the refrigerator.
Step 3
Thread the marinated paneer cubes onto skewers. Heat oil on a tawa and place the skewers on it.
Step 4
Cook turning the skewers a few times, so that the paneer browns evenly on all sides. Take the paneer cubes off the skewers, place on a plate and set aside.
Step 5
For the onion-tomato masala, heat the oil in a pan. Add cumin seeds and when they begin to change colour, add onions and sauté till well browned.
Step 6
Add garlic and sauté till lightly browned. Add ginger paste and garlic paste and continue to sauté for another minute.
Step 7
Add tomatoes and salt and cook, covered over low heat till the tomatoes are soft and pulpy.
Step 8
Add tomato purée, red chilli powder, turmeric powder, coriander powder, cumin powder and half a cup of water and cook, covered, over medium heat for three to four minutes, or till the oil separates.
Step 9
Stir in the coriander leaves, kasoori methi, garam masala powder and cream. Cook for another two minutes.
Step 10
Add paneer tikka and capsicum, stir gently and serve with a dollop of butter on top.
Nutrition Info
Calories : 3210	 Kcal
Carbohydrates : 95.6	 gm
Protein : 114.9	 gm
Fat : 263.5	 gm
Other : Fiber- 27.8gm
